# Predicting-the-electrical-energy-output-of-a-Combined-Cycle-Power-Plant-using-ANN 游游游
1) OVERVIEW:-游댵游댵游댵

A combined-cycle power plant is an electrical power plant in which a Gas Turbine (GT) and a Steam Turbine (ST) are used in combination to produce more electrical energy from the same fuel than that would be possible from a single cycle power plant.

The gas turbine compresses air and mixes it with a fuel heated to a very high temperature. The hot air-fuel mixture moves through the blades, making them spin. The fast-spinning gas turbine drives a generator to generate electricity. The exhaust (waste) heat escaped through the exhaust stack of the gas turbine is utilized by a Heat Recovery Steam Generator (HSRG) system to produce steam that spins a steam turbine. This steam turbine drives a generator to produce additional electricity. CCCP is assumed to produce 50% more energy than a single power plant.


3)  Directions to Use:游녢游녢
  a) Download the training dataset (exel file) from repo. 九九
  b) Open .ipynb file through this link: https://colab.research.google.com/github/AVIRALAKASH/Predicting-the-electrical-energy-output-of-a-Combined-Cycle-Power-Plant-using-ANN/blob/main/Predicting_the_electrical_energy_output_of_a_Combined_Cycle_Power_Plant_using_ANN.ipynb 九九
  c) Upload the dataset in collab through: Files-->Upload Session Storage--> Select Dataset 九九
  d) Run the model through: Runtime-->Run All which is going to train the neural network. 九九
  e) Enter desired values of Temp, Pressure, Humidity and Exhaust Vacuum to predict req Energy Output. 九九

2)Data Set Information:-游닆游닆游닆

The dataset contains 9568 data points collected from a Combined Cycle Power Plant over 6 years (2006-2011), when the power plant was set to work with full load. Features consist of hourly average ambient variables Temperature (T), Ambient Pressure (AP), Relative Humidity (RH) and Exhaust Vacuum (V) to predict the net hourly electrical energy output (EP) of the plant.
A combined cycle power plant (CCPP) is composed of gas turbines (GT), steam turbines (ST) and heat recovery steam generators. In a CCPP, the electricity is generated by gas and steam turbines, which are combined in one cycle, and is transferred from one turbine to another. While the Vacuum is colected from and has effect on the Steam Turbine, he other three of the ambient variables effect the GT performance.
Training Data Set taken from:- https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Combined+Cycle+Power+Plant

3)Attribute Information:-游늳游늳

Features consist of hourly average ambient variables
 游녤Temperature (T) in the range 1.81춿C and 37.11춿C,
 游녤Ambient Pressure (AP) in the range 992.89-1033.30 milibar,
 游녤Relative Humidity (RH) in the range 25.56% to 100.16%
 游녤Exhaust Vacuum (V) in teh range 25.36-81.56 cm Hg
 游녤Net hourly electrical energy output (EP) 420.26-495.76 MW
 游녤The averages are taken from various sensors located around the plant that record the ambient variables every second. The variables are given without normalization.


